# What to install
- Java (tested on OpenJDK 17)
- Python (tested on 3.6.9)
- Spot (https://spot.lrde.epita.fr/) [for Python]
# How to run

Generate the local version for each monitor. This is done by running the following command in the terminal.
```bash
$- java -jar tool.jar <cgs> <global_trace>
```
This will generate two new files, called trace1.txt and trace2.txt.
These two files contain the local version for the two monitors (i.e., what the two monitors can see).

Note that, up to now, we are considering only the case with two monitors (i.e., two agents).
The implementation for more than two monitors is straightforward, but left for further development on the implementation side (even though completely handled at the theoretical level in the submitted paper).

The <global_trace> contains both the events (observed by executing the system) and the objectives.
The objectives are described as follows:
--- {atoms1} | {atoms2}
These are interpreted by our tool as the objectives for Monitor 1 (atoms1), and the objectives for Monitor 2 (atoms2).
Such objectives may change during the trace, so they may appear in multiple points. Each time we observe a "---", it denotes a synchronization step, where the static verification and runtime verification parts are supposed to communicate. The actual communication is left out (since out of scope), but its implications are preserved.

For instance, considering an example trace (similar to the ones presented in the paper)
```bash
$- java -jar tool.jar modelInformationSharing.json trace.txt
```
We obtain two traces representing the local version for Monitor 1 and Monitor 2.

In more detail, the trace represents a scenario where:
- Monitor 1 has to verify the LTL formula: "(coffee U sleep) & (F bathroom)"
- Monitor 2 has to verify the LTL formula: "(F coffee) & (G (sleep and !gas))"
Because of these two formulas, the monitor decide first to share (coffee <--> sleep), so that Monitor 1 can verify its left part, and Monitor 2 can verify its left part as well. After that, the trace goes on (so after the second "---") and Monitor 1 changes its objective to having bathroom atom, while Monitor 2 in having gas atom, thus the exchange gas <--> bathroom is established.
Finally, thanks to this information sharing, both Monitors can verify their formulas, and conclude.

To test that the chosen information exchange is enough for both Monitors to verify their properties, we can test it.
To do so, run the following commands:
```bash
$- python rvImpInf.py "((coffee U sleep) & (F bathroom))" "[coffee,bathroom,sleep,gas,oven]" "[]" trace1.txt
```
For verifying Monitor 1's formula with respect to the local version generated by our tool. Monitor 1 concludes True.
```bash
$- python rvImpInf.py "((F coffee) & (G (sleep and !gas)))" "[coffee,bathroom,sleep,gas,oven]" "[]" trace2.txt
```
For verifying Monitor 2's formula with respect to the local version generated by our tool. Monitor 2 concludes False.
